Compute/routes/README.md, before:

## Overview

The Radius.Compute/routes Resource Type defines network routes for responding to external clients. It is always part of a Radius Application. It is analogous to a Kubernetes HTTPRoute, TCPRoute, TLSRoute, or UDPRoute resource. 

Developer documentation is embedded in the Resource Type definition YAML file. Developer documentation is accessible via `rad resource-type show Radius.Compute/routes`.

## Recipes

A list of available Recipes for this Resource Type, including links to the Bicep and Terraform templates:

|Platform| IaC Language| Recipe Name | Stage |
|---|---|---|---|
| TODO | TODO | TODO | Alpha |

## Recipe Input Properties

| Radius Property | Kubernetes Property |
|---|---|
| context.properties.kind | Used by Recipe to determine which Kubernetes resource type to create (HTTPRoute, TCPRoute, TLSRoute, or UDPRoute). |
| context.properties.hostnames[] | HTTPRoute.spec.hostnames[] |
| context.properties.rules[] | HTTPRoute.spec.rules[] |
| context.properties.rules[].matches[] | HTTPRoute.spec.rules[].matches[] |
| context.properties.rules[].matches[].httpHeaders[].* | HTTPRoute.spec.rules[].matches[].headers[].* |
| context.properties.rules[].matches[].httpMethod | HTTPRoute.spec.rules[].matches[].method |
| context.properties.rules[].matches[].httpPath | HTTPRoute.spec.rules[].matches[].path.value |
| context.properties.rules[].matches[].httpQueryParams[].* | HTTPRoute.spec.rules[].matches[].queryParams[].* |
| context.properties.rules[].destinationContainer | N/A |
| context.properties.rules[].destinationContainer.resourceId |  N/A |
| context.properties.rules[].destinationContainer.containerName |  N/A |
| context.properties.rules[].destinationContainer.containerPortName |  N/A |

## Recipe Output Properties

### result.listener

- result.listener.hostname: The hostname of the listener. The listener hostname plus the paths defined by the developer constitute the URL.
- result.listener.port: The port of the listener
- result.listener.protocol: The protocol of the listener

Commit message:

Add routes recipes (#50)
This PR adds Recipes for the Routes resource type. Since Routes need a
container for the connection to work, this PR also adds a simple
container Recipe

---------

Signed-off-by: sk593 <shruthikumar@microsoft.com>

Compute/routes/README.md, after:

## Overview

The Radius.Compute/routes Resource Type defines network routes for responding to external clients. It is always part of a Radius Application. It is analogous to a Kubernetes HTTPRoute, TCPRoute, TLSRoute, or UDPRoute resource. 

Developer documentation is embedded in the Resource Type definition YAML file. Developer documentation is accessible via `rad resource-type show Radius.Compute/routes`.

## Recipes

A list of available Recipes for this Resource Type, including links to the Bicep and Terraform templates:

|Platform| IaC Language| Recipe Name | Stage |
|---|---|---|---|
| Kubernetes | Bicep | recipes/kubernetes/bicep/kubernetes-routes.bicep | Alpha |
| Kubernetes | Terraform | recipes/kubernetes/terraform/main.tf | Alpha |

## Recipe Input Properties

The Kubernetes Bicep and Terraform recipes require the following parameters to be provided by the user (no defaults are set). It is expected that the user will have their desired Gateway controller set up before using a Radius.Compute/routes resource. 

- `gatewayName`: Name of the Gateway resource the routes attach to.
- `gatewayNamespace`: Namespace where that Gateway exists.

| Radius Property | Kubernetes Property |
|---|---|
| context.properties.kind | Used by Recipe to determine which Kubernetes resource type to create (HTTPRoute, TCPRoute, TLSRoute, or UDPRoute). |
| context.properties.hostnames[] | HTTPRoute.spec.hostnames[] |
| context.properties.rules[] | HTTPRoute.spec.rules[] |
| context.properties.rules[].matches[] | HTTPRoute.spec.rules[].matches[] |
| context.properties.rules[].matches[].httpHeaders[].* | HTTPRoute.spec.rules[].matches[].headers[].* |
| context.properties.rules[].matches[].httpMethod | HTTPRoute.spec.rules[].matches[].method |
| context.properties.rules[].matches[].httpPath | HTTPRoute.spec.rules[].matches[].path.value |
| context.properties.rules[].matches[].httpQueryParams[].* | HTTPRoute.spec.rules[].matches[].queryParams[].* |
| context.properties.rules[].destinationContainer | N/A |
| context.properties.rules[].destinationContainer.resourceId |  N/A |
| context.properties.rules[].destinationContainer.containerName |  N/A |
| context.properties.rules[].destinationContainer.containerPort |  N/A |

## Recipe Output Properties

### result.listener

- result.listener.hostname: The hostname of the listener. The listener hostname plus the paths defined by the developer constitute the URL.
- result.listener.port: The port of the listener
- result.listener.protocol: The protocol of the listener
